During this COVID pandemic,
it's not hard for negative feelings
to begin to form in our minds.
We may begin to think a lot about things
that we were able to do in the past.
For us at Bethel,
maybe it's thinking about some of the speaking assignments
that we had in various congregations
being with different brothers and sisters
and getting to meet different ones.
Maybe we even think about when we served
as Bethel representatives at circuit assemblies
or regional conventions with large, large crowds
of our brothers and sisters.
Elders in the field may think about the work
that they did for many, many years
on convention committees or in organizing large departments
either at conventions or at assemblies.
Pioneers might be thinking about what they did
during the special metropolitan public witnessing program
or just in public witnessing in general.
And then there's all of the pioneers
that have commuted to Bethel some for many years
to support our work.
Well, all of these involve different assignments,
but there's one thing that they all have in common.
We all have had to hit the pause button
on all of these assignments that we loved so much.
Well, sometimes we may begin to ask ourselves,
does the fact that I no longer can do these assignments
that I loved so much mean that somehow I've lost value
that I'm not as precious to Jehovah anymore?
Well, this is where our text can be so helpful to us.
Let's read it again.
Let's go in our Bibles to Philippians.
Chapter two, and let's read together verses five to seven.
Let's read all three verses.
It says, keep this mental attitude in you
that was also in Christ Jesus,
who although he was existing in God's form
gave no consideration to a seizure,
namely that he should be equal to God.
No, but now let's focus on this.
No, but he emptied himself and took a slave's form
and became human.
When I was just a few words there,
but can you imagine what was involved in that last expression?
He emptied himself and took a slave's form.
It's really hard for us even to begin to imagine
the position that Jesus occupied in the heavens
before he came to earth.
Maybe we get a little glimpse of it.
If we go in our Bibles,
let's read together Colossians, chapter one,
and let's look at verse 15.
Now speaking about Jesus, it says,
he is the image of the invisible God,
the firstborn of all creation.
Because by means of him,
all other things were created in the heavens
and on the earth, the things visible and the things invisible,
whether they are thrones or lordships
or governments or authorities,
all other things have been created through him and for him.
Also, he is before all other things
and by means of him, all other things were made to exist.
Well, yes, as the master worker,
Jesus was used by his father in the creation of the universe
and all of the things in it.
John chapter one, verse three,
says, all things came into existence through him
and apart from him, not even one thing came into existence.
What an amazing role Jesus played in heaven.
But Jesus was willing to give up that position in heaven
and accept the assignment that Jehovah had for him here on the earth.
But now what did accepting that assignment involve?
Now let's look at three different things.
We might be finding the lockdown challenging,
especially after seven months, but consider this.
Jesus had to be in the womb of Mary
as a helpless embryo for nine months.
Can you imagine what a change that was for him?
Let's consider a second thing.
Jesus had been the spokesman for Jehovah in heaven.
But now Jesus would have to learn to speak
and be taught by imperfect humans.
Let's consider a third one.
In heaven, his associates had been faithful, powerful,
heavenly spirit creatures.
But now on earth, who were his associates?
Fisherman, former prostitutes,
just the very common, simple, humble people,
who the Pharisees in John chapter seven in verse 49 called a curse.
Well, what do you think?
Was that a major change for Jesus to leave his heavenly position
and come to the earth?
He truly emptied himself as Philippians two verse seven says.
But now, here's the question.
Did Jesus feel that somehow he had lost value with Jehovah
because he had gone through such a huge change in his assignment?
And now was a human on earth, not for a moment.
But why?
Well, would you open your Bibles?
Let's read together this thought in the book of John chapter eight.
And let's look, let's look together here at verse 29.
Jesus said,
and the one who sent me is with me.
He did not abandon me to myself
because I always do the things pleasing to him.
Isn't that a beautiful verse?
You see, Jesus knew that the work that he was doing
was the work his father had asked him to do.
It was not the same work that he had done
when he was in heaven, but he was still always doing the things
that were pleasing to his father.
And for that reason, Jesus knew in his heart
that Jehovah God would certainly never abandon him.
He kept busy working hard in his present assignment,
not focusing on what he had done in the past.
When our brothers and sisters, what do we learn from this?
We've all had some changes, some of them even major changes
in our assignments because of the pandemic.
But our primary goal has never changed.
Just like Jesus, we continually seek to do the things
pleasing to our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
Now, we can't go from door to door right now
and we can't do public witnessing
and we can't meet at our kingdom halls or assembly halls and so on.
But because we all love Jehovah,
we find ways even in the midst of this pandemic
to do things that please him.
Now, the Watchtower made an interesting comment.
The Watchtower of August 2020, page 25.
Here's what it said.
Do you get discouraged because you currently do not have
the same privileges of service that you had in the past?
If so, you will be happier if you change your focus
and concentrate on what you can do right now
to serve Jehovah and your brothers.
Stay busy using your gifts and abilities to help others
and you will find joy as you build up the congregation.
Well, that's what we're all trying to do.
And Jehovah loves us because we're trying.
And he blesses our efforts.
Now, take this experience that one sister had in the United States.
She had sent out some letters as a part of her ministry
and imagine how surprised this dear sister was
to receive a letter from a lady that we're going to call Mary.
Here's what this letter said.
Hello, my name is Mary and I want to thank you for sending me a beautiful letter.
I was at Jehovah's Witness between the ages of 9 and 12.
My mother was a full-time pioneer.
I was, we would go door to door daily.
But as young as I was and already having the taste of birthdays and holidays,
I left my mom to live with my dad.
My mom pioneered for over 25 years.
She died in 2007.
Though at my young age, I was not close to her.
In my adult years, we became best friends.
To her dying days, she would tell me, Mary, return to Jehovah.
I just never felt I could live up to the standards.
I didn't want to be a hypocrite.
That's my big issue and not studying.
You can't keep one toe in.
It's all or nothing.
After my mom died at her memorial,
she had a sister give me a Bible.
And on the front of the Bible, she inscribed,
to Mary, from mom,
returned to me in paradise.
I want to see her so bad.
And I know the only way to do so is to return to Jehovah.
But I get scared.
What if I can't do it right?
I don't want to mess up.
Every night, I say my prayers to Jehovah as I have done.
But on August 19, 2020, I said my prayers.
But this time I asked Jehovah,
Jehovah, you know how I feel and you know my heart.
I want to connect to a church or a religion to praise you.
I said, Jehovah, you know me.
It almost has to be a brick to hit me to understand what's right.
On August 20, the very next day, I went to get the mail and I received your letter.
I could not believe it.
I was so shocked.
I actually sat down and thought, wow, now what do I do?
Jehovah answered, now I need to follow through and I'm nervous.
I hope that you can help me take the steps I need to take.
Again, I'm scared, but I hope that I can make the changes I need to make.
Sincerely, Mary.
Well, that's the power of one letter.
It's true.
We've had to press that pause button on many of the assignments
that we have just loved doing.
But does that mean that we've lost value with Jehovah?
Jehovah is still with us.
We have not lost any value with him and he is not going to abandon us.
So what do we need to do like Jesus?
Let's not focus on what we used to do.
But instead, let's do everything we can do right now to do all the things pleasing
to our wonderful Heavenly Father, Jehovah.